Let's get some practice examining our LVM setup,
and doing things like creating a new logical volume, and
putting a filesystem on it, etc.
So first, let's see what physical volumes are in use in our system.
And we can do that with:
"sudo pvdisplay | grep sd".
And you'll see, these are the different hard disk partitions
which are being used as physical volumes, and being used in the volume groups.
So, we see that we have both "sdb" and "sda".
On this system, "sda" is an old-fashioned rotational hard disk.
"sdb", as in "SSD", which is much faster, so
we try to put high-performance sensitive data on "sdb".
If I just type "sudo pvdisplay", just looking at "sd",
I get information about each volume on the system.
So, you'll see exactly how big each one is.
For instance, "sda2" is 500 gigabytes in size.
And the extents, or the units in which the physical volume
is trunked up are 4 megabytes, which is what's called a "PE".
If I want to see what volumes are on the system, I can do "sudo vgdisplay",
and once again, just to get a quick idea, I'll say "Name".
And you'll see, there are volume groups "VG" and "VG2".
And then, I can get more information if I just do "sudo vgdisplay".
And so, you see "VG2", for instance,
currently has 426 gigabytes free, out of a total of 1.05 terabytes on that disk.
If I want to see what logical volumes I have on my system,
I could do "sudo lvdisplay", and I can grep that with "Path".
And those are the different logical volumes that are on the system.
If I just try "sudo lvdisplay",
I get details about each logical volume that's on the system.
So I notice, I left from a previous attempt,
"newLV" which is I want to create in here, so let me get rid of that first.
So I do "sudo lvremove /dev/VG2/newLV".
And it's asking me whether I really want to do that,
and I'll say "yes".
And it's removed.
So, let's go through the process though of recreating it.
So, I'll do "sudo lvcreate -L 4G",
I want it to be 4 gigabytes in size.
I want the name to be "newLV".
And I'm going to put it in "VG2".
So that's created, but it's not really usable yet,
unless I put a filesystem on it.
So, I'll do "sudo mkfs", and
let's just make it an "ext4" filesystem,
"/dev/VG2/newLV".
And it's writing our new filesystem on there.
And then I can mount it and use it, etc.
So, let me just mount it,
"sudo mount /dev/VG2/newLV",
and I'll put that on "/mnt".
And I can verify it's really there.
And you'll see at the bottom here it's 3.9 gigabyte and
only 16 megabytes are actually used at the moment.
And then finally, let me remove it, "sudo lvremove /dev/VG2/newLV".
I didn't unmount it first, so
it won't let me remove it, so the system is being smart.
So, I'll do "sudo umount /mnt", and then I'll try to remove it again.
It says, do you really want to do it?
And I say "yes".
So that's basic commands for manipulating logical volumes on the LVM system.